doc(release): Release notes oss 24.04 (#4564)
centreon/centreon-documentation: versioned_docs/version-24.04/releases/centreon-os.mdx

## Centreon Web

### 24.04.16

Release date: `August 5, 2025`

> <details>
>   <summary>Bug fixes</summary>
> 
> - [Resource Status] Optimized legend rendering in graphs.
> - [Authentication] Improved SAML configuration by adding a "Requested Authentication Context" parameter.
> - [Resource Status] It is now possible to avoid performance issues when using free text search, by using a new option named "Free text search behavior" in the Administration > Parameters > Centreon UI menu.
> - [Resource Status] It is now possible to avoid performance issues when using free text search, by using a new option named "Free text search behavior" in the Administration > Parameters > Centreon UI menu.
> 
> 
> </details>
> 
> <details>
>   <summary>Bug fixes</summary>
> 
> - [Metaservices] Fixed several issues occuring when using MySQL 8.
> - [API] Fixed an issue on service template listing endpoint.
> - [Administration] Fixed an issue on user groups and templates when importing LDAP with a non admin user.
> - [Language] Fixed issue preventing modern pages from being translated when choosing "detection by browser" as a language.
> - [Resource Status] The correct pictogram is now used when displaying a parent resource in downtime.
> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue where the Mass Change action on Linked Service Templates caused a 500 Internal Server Error.
> - [Compatibility] Fixed issue preventing Business Activities from being displayed on remote servers.
> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue where adding/editing a service failed when a command was configured on a template that was not the direct parent of the service.
> - [Upgrade] Fixed migration script for version 23.10.8.
> 
> </details>
> 
> <details>
>   <summary>Security fixes</summary>
> 
> - [Vulnerability] Fixed vulnerabilities on several pages.
> 
> </details>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

- [Resource Status] Optimized legend rendering in graphs.
- [Authentication] Improved SAML configuration by adding a "Requested Authentication Context" parameter.
- [Resource Status] It is now possible to avoid performance issues when using free text search, by using a new option named "Free text search behavior" in the Administration > Parameters > Centreon UI menu.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

- [Metaservices] Fixed several issues occuring when using MySQL 8.
- [API] Fixed a 500 error affecting the service template listing endpoint.
- [Administration] Fixed an issue on user groups and templates that occurred when importing non-admin users from LDAP.
- [Language] Fixed an issue preventing modern pages from being translated when choosing "detection by browser" as a language.
- [Resource Status] The correct pictogram is now used when displaying a parent resource in downtime.
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue where the Mass Change action on Linked Service Templates caused a 500 internal server error.
- [Compatibility] Fixed an issue preventing Business Activities from being displayed on remote servers.
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue where adding/editing a service failed when a command was configured on a template that was not the direct parent of the service.
- [Upgrade] Fixed migration script for version 23.10.8.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Security fixes</summary>

- [Vulnerability] Fixed vulnerabilities on several pages.

</details>
```
